Essay #2
2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years? 
I see myself at a large company like Microsoft.  I particularly like Microsoft because of the diversity and inclusion GM Gwen Houston discusses and that I see displayed on campus.  Daily, I am surrounded by people of every race, gender and definition of gender.  Women are prominent on campus.  There are fewer African Americans and Latinos/as, but still quite a few.  At Microsoft, I am surrounded by the crème of the crop.  It is especially nice to see a company that has high ranking officers who are minorities and women.  The CEO, who is East Indian, recently pledged a commitment to African American employees and their needs and it was before Black History Month!  A company who holds the standard in so many areas of software, digital products, AI, the Cloud, etc. is still so willing to innovate and venture into new business areas of technology.  I like the perks, big budgets and large teams and resources available to employees in a large company.
My expertise runs in startup environments where one can wear many hats.  I learned as a Visual Media Specialist in a startup department at Franklin Templeton to create and streamline processes, reducing errors in the update process I created by 60%.  As a Strategic Consultant at Interactive Marketing, Inc., I felt confidence as I recommended complex revenue models in Excel to the CEO of vPangea, a subsidiary of Samsung.  I researched email marketing providers for another client.  I get jazzed with these because I understand ambiguity and forge ahead with it.  At the Northwest African American Museum, I did everything from create a Gift Pyramid and Development Action Plan to write the Strategic Plan to develop a Marketing Plan which was used for nonprofits in the area. Given that this is my expertise, I am open to possibilities, but I appreciate the prowess, talent and resources a large company provides.
In five years, I see myself as a Product or Program Manager – hopefully Senior level – in one of the following areas - all under the Cloud umbrella.  The Cloud is the fastest growing area of Technology.  Microsoft considers it the center of it’s sales and is currently number 2 as a provider of Cloud services and infrastructure.  Amazon is currently the leading provider who has captured the highest percentage of market share in this area, but with PC sales lagging, indicators show that this is the future of computing and technology:
1. UX Design and web development.  With my background in Psychology, Graphic Design and initial, basic understanding of the web development languages HTML and CSS, I see myself making a big splash in these areas.  Professionals I have polled have told me that this is a growing area which is in great need of recruitment of women.  I can leverage my strengths in and passion for this area, while building on programming languages that will deliver it to me.
2. CDN and Live Media.  Delivering with the speed and accuracy necessary in producing major live media events necessitates using the Cloud.  The programming involved in relaying the media messages, download times, relay experiences requires a huge amount of storage space backing it up.  Live media experiences are the future of Television.  I want to participate in programming that delivers these fast experiences and the translation needed to the Cloud.  Alternatively, as a Product Manager in this area, I could be involved in creating the Marketing Strategy for selling to customers who specialize in delivering these live media experiences.  I would need a highly evolved understanding of the programming that accompanies these areas particularly in how they talk to the Cloud.  My background in Business of Entertainment developed during my MBA at University of Southern California and internship at Universal Music Group prepared me for the space in which these large media providers specialize.  Akamai is another company where I could establish my expertise.
3. I have an idea for an app I want to produce.  I plan to create it as my capstone project in the ADA program at the recommendation of Cynthia Tee, Executive Director.  If it catches on as a viable app that a company would be interested in, I would like to specialize in programs making (like Microsoft’s PowerApps although since the majority of apps are on the Android or IOS platform I could look into other products who are responsible for this) the creation of apps available to many.  Apps, Bots and IoT are other areas where computing is excelling so facilitating the ease of creating an app is one way to bring this slice of the world of technology to more people like me who have the interest but not necessarily the know-how.


