
Essay #4
4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently? 
As an MBA, I wanted experience in consulting with one of the Big 5 or the elite consulting firms.  Finally, I got my chance in my second year.  I interned in the summer as a Strategic Consultant for Interactive Marketing, Inc., a boutique consulting firm specializing in companies entering the internet arena.  Now at the Black MBA conference in Chicago, I was eyed by the Top consulting firms.  They felt my experience was relevant and interesting.  It looked as though I was on the right track.  One day at the Tradeshow, I saw an intern I knew from another school.  He whisked me in front of his manager at Booz Allen and said, “She’s a Genius.”  After a few minutes of speaking to the lead recruiter, she invited me to a workshop held by Pricewaterhouse Coopers on “How to prepare for the Case Interview.”  At the same time, I had the opportunity to see the White Museum in Chicago.  My family has a tradition of visiting Museums in major cities in the country and around the world.  I ended up establishing a Museum so it turned out later that the trips were meaningful in preparation for my career.  I chose to visit the Museum.  I had been preparing for interviews throughout my MBA career thus far, and even though I had an inkling the Case interviews were a little different I had this covered.  A short while after I returned home, I was flown up to the San Francisco Booz Allen office from LA for an interview.
The first person I interviewed with was the Vice President – the highest level of the Company besides Partner.  I intrigued him.  The interview went very well.  Next it was on to an Associate, the level I would be hired for, and the Case part of the interview though I was not aware of it.  The first and only question of the interview was “How much does a 747 weigh?”  I was baffled.  Dumbfounded.  He actually wanted the answer or a close approximation. I had no idea nor did I know how I was supposed to figure it out.  I thought back to the Interview Prep I had been invited to in Chicago.  I could see now it wasn’t an option – it was a prerequisite.  My interviewer mercifully guided me through bits and pieces on how to figure out the question.  I was supposed to know pieces of information like the formula for Volume – something I hadn’t considered since highschool Geometry!  Luckily, I went to Bill Gates’ highschool in Seattle, Lakeside School, so we had learned it then.  I left the interview disheartened, but with leaving a key piece of information – a complex Excel revenue model I had programmed for vPangea, a virtual 3D world on a disk.
The lesson I learned from this experience was prepare early and thoroughly for a task.  If training preparation is offered, take full advantage of it.  Start early delving into a task you think will be difficult.  In my Aquent Gymnasium Class on HTML, CSS and Java I took in 2014, I put these ideas into practice.  I started on the projects right away.   I took advantage of all the videos and extra discussion including projects for extra credit.  I tested out the concepts right along with the program.    I used my free time to devote to the class whenever possible.  I researched thoroughly the availability of resources that I was missing.  I did this because I knew it would be difficult.  I did this because I wanted to be prepared.

